Password Cracking
In cryptanalysis, password cracking is the
process of recovering
a clear text passphrase, given its
stored hash.
The process of password cracking is fairly
straight-forward at a high level.
Once we’ve discovered the hashing
mechanism we are dealing with
in the target authentication process,
we can iterate over each word in a
wordlist
and generate the respective message
digest.
If the computed hash matches the
one obtained from the target system,
we have obtained the matching
plain-text password.
This is usually all accomplished
with the help of a specialized
password cracking program.
If a salt is involved in the
authentication process,
and we do not know what that
salt value is,
cracking could become extremely complex,
if not impossible, as we must repeatedly
hash each potential clear text password
with various salts.
Nevertheless, in our experience we have
almost always been able to
capture the password hash along with
the salt.
whether from a database that contains both
of the unique values per record,
or from a configuration or a binary file
that uses a single salt
for all hashed values.
When both of these values are known,
password cracking decreases in complexity.
Once we’ve gained access to password
hashes from a target system,
we can begin a password cracking session,
running in the background,
as we continue our assessment.
If any of the passwords are cracked, we
could attempt to use those passwords
on other systems to increase our control
over the target network.
This, like other penetration testing
processes, is iterative
and we will feed data back into earlier
steps as we expand our control.
To demonstrate password cracking, we’ll
again turn to John the Ripper
as it supports dozens of password formats
and is incredibly powerful and flexible.
Running john in pure brute force mode
(attempting every possible
character combination in a password)
is as simple as passing the file name
containing our password hashes
on the command line along with
the hashing format.
Since we know the type of hash we’re
cracking,
we use the –format option to crack the
hashes that we dumped using mimikatz.
John recognizes the hash type correctly
and sets out to crack it.
A brute force attack such as this,
however, will take a long time
based on the speed of our system.
As an alternative, we can use the
–wordlist parameter
and provide the path to a
wordlist instead,
which shortens the process time but
promises less password coverage.
If any passwords remain to be cracked, we
can next try to apply JTR’s
word mangling rules with the
–rules parameter.
Next, we’ll see how John the Ripper deals
with Linux password hashes.
In order to crack Linux-based hashes
with John,
we will need to first use the unshadow
utility to combine the passwd
and shadow files from the
compromised system.
Let’s quickly add a new user to our system
with a relatively weak password
so we can give John something easy
to crack.
Now we’ll use grep to extract the victim
user details
from /etc/passwd and /etc/shadow into
two files in our home directory.
Note that root permissions are
required to read /etc/shadow.
Great, let’s continue.
John the Ripper requires a special hash
format that is generated with unshadow.
To use unshadow, we simply pass
the password
and shadow file names as arguments.
Let’s save this to a file so we can
pass it to John.
We can now run john, passing the wordlist
and the unshadowed text file as arguments.
Newer versions of John the Ripper are
multi-threaded by default,
and this can be enabled on older
versions with the --fork option.
We can also distribute the cracking load
across multiple computers
with the --node option.
Refer to your lab guide for more
information.
Let’s clean up our system and get rid
of that new user we created.
While John the Ripper is a great tool
for cracking password hashes,
its speed is limited to the power of
the CPUs dedicated to the task.
In recent years, GPUs have become
incredibly powerful
and are, of course, found in every
computer with a display.
GPU-cracking tools like Hashcat
leverage the power of both the CPU
and the GPU to achieve incredible
password cracking speeds.
If you would like to learn more about
GPU password cracking,
refer to your lab guide and the
ample documentation
available on the Hashcat wiki.